+++
client_heading = "Pushing pixels and crafting code since 2005"
client_image = "/uploads/close-up-5.jpg"
client_location = "Redesigner"
client_logo = "/solvm-logo-gold.svg"
client_type = "This"
client_website = ""
date = "2020-02-16T23:28:00-06:00"
layout = "work/single"
seo_page_description = ""
seo_page_title = ""
subtitle = ""
title = "About"
[menu.main]
weight = 1
[[layers]]
head = "OG"
template = "fm_layer_content"
text = "SOLVM is a one-man-show website and logo redesign business run by Benjamin Gandhi-Shepard. Ben got his brake in 2006 when he redesigned and redeveloped anheuser-busch.com by himself. He has seen many practices and styles come and go. His many years of experience make him a fast, effective and reliable redesigner."
[[layers]]
head = "Philosophy"
template = "fm_layer_content"
text = "A redesign is a balance between three forces, (1) what you want, (2) what they want and (3) how the game is played. On their face, these are simple to understand, but there is a ton of nuance between the three.\n\n## What you want\n\nThis is the easy part. Most clients have an idea about what's important to them. They say stuff like, \"we want our site to be more interactive and not so boring\", which is easy to do. However, how will this help your business? Yes, looking good can turn your ship around, but how can we then keep it pointed in the right direction? Every business must do business to stay in business right? So, what can we do to insure we are actually attracting business and out playing competitors online?\n\n## What they want\n\nIt is not enough to seek success based on what we want alone. We need to know what _they_ want as well. This might sound obvious, but the people that visit your website what to find what they are looking for and feel confident in your abilities. \n\nSo, how does this get messed up? Well, trying to be too cool can make your website hard to navigate. Think about it, when you get in a car, you expect the steering wheel, brakes and accelerator to be in the same place. If a car manufacturer moves or obscures these basic items, while trying to be different(cool), then they are simply making a car that sucks to drive, if the user can even drive it at all. Thus, the way the navigation and layout is designed in your site, greatly assists your visitors in finding what they want quickly without frustration.\n\nIt's also important to know what pages are the most visited in your site. If we check the Google Analytics data in your site (please say you are using Google Analytics), this can greatly inform which pages in your site need the most attention during the redesign process. \n\nBut even if we successfully identify what we want and what they want, will it even satisfy the rules of engagement online?\n\n## How the game is played\n\nThe internet is no more than a constantly moving target for those who are trying to out-perform their competitors online. If you have an old website, I'm almost positive that your site is no longer maximizing its effectiveness online. \n\nSearch Engine Optimization (SEO) practices have expanded tremendously. Years ago, SEO ranking factors simply included using the right keywords in the right places in your website. Now, maximizing your SEO today further includes maximizing loading speed, accessibility, and current development based best practices.\n\nThe sheer amount of devices used to access your website has sky rocketed. Years ago, Desktop computers used to be the only devices that were accessing your website. Now, countless computers, tablets and mobile phones of all different eras and resolutions are visiting your website. Is your website \"responsive?\"Is it crafted to display well on all these devices? Is it optimized to load quickly by a mobile device, or is it packed with monstrous, non-optimized images that are destroying your user's data plans?\n\nMaybe you have a WordPress website. WordPress is notoriously slow, bloated, insecure and prone to crash whenever you are prompted to make an update. Years ago, this was really the only solution for delivering a website that was also (sorta) easy for a non-nerd to manage. Today, there are other options.\n\nAs you can see, there is a constantly evolving nature to the internet. To maximize your success online it's important to know how \"the game\" is played online. Otherwise, you are promoting invisibility and user frustration online."
[[layers]]
template = "fm_layer_quote"
text = "Websites age more like bread than wine."
[[layers]]
head = "Bad news"
template = "fm_layer_content"
text = "Yeah, I have bad news. I'm going to be expensive, I'm going to do all the work myself, I will not do deadlines, I won't bill hourly and I require 100% of the project payment upfront. I know this might be jarring. I know that this is different than most, but here's why, and I think you might even prefer it.\n\n## I only take on a few clients each year\n\nI'm a one-man-team, and I only work on one project at a time. This means you get my full attention with no middle (mis)management. But if I'm booked up, then I don't have the bandwidth to be of service. Sorry.\n\n## I'm picky\n\nI'm sure you are too. There's a probability that we wont be a good fit. As much as you are looking for an expert that can deliver on your project, I am also looking for a client where my expertice can create value.\n\n## I am a one-man-team\n\nThe biggest project I ever delivered alone front-to-back was anhueser-busch.com. I know how to design, develop, talk to people and how to run a business. I don't need a team of (mis)management standing in the way.\n\nHere's the classic problematic team based issue, and I know this because I've worked at agencies before. No one brings the developer to the meetings because that person is bad at communicating. Or they do, but the developer doesn't say anything or at least nothing that anyone understands. The designer is arrogant and thinks that their designs are the only thing that can save your business. And they scoff at you when you want a different font. The project manager is nice, but doesn't know anything about design nor development so this person is always needing to get back to you with an answer for your questions. Meanwhile, this project is burning away at your pocketbook. And then there is a boss somewhere that is pushing the team to add as many services as possible because this extends the billable hour which makes the agency more money. I don't know, maybe that's what you want. I'm just saying that I manage your time and money better with out the overhead of a team.\n\n## I don’t do deadlines\n\nA deadline in software/design projects is like giving deadlines to a baby to learn how to walk. \n\nWhile you are ready to get walking, you are forced to wait for your baby to develop at their own pace. In this light, giving a baby a deadline to start walking sounds silly.\n\nWell, software/design projects work the same way. While I have ALL day to design and develop your project, YOU have a full-time job. This project is in addition to the work you already have to do. Thus, it's not me that makes deadlines risky. It's YOU! I can't control your schedule, nor your decision making process. Thus, you are the deadline bottleneck.\n\nFor example, let's say that I finish a design, when will you get back to me? That depends right? Maybe you need time to think about it. Maybe your team needs to find a time to talk it over first. Maybe you have a lot going on and need to put communication on pause until things slow down. That should be fine right? Well what if the time you need to respond is constantly in conflict with meeting deadlines?\n\nLet's not put the pressure of deadlines on the project so you can give your work 100% of the attention it needs. Handling your work will then create the time necessary to give our project the time it needs to be successful. \n\nWhat happens when you rush a baby to start walking? They fall. Let's not employ any practices that make the success of your project painful and unrealistic to achieve.\n\n## I don't bill hourly\n\nI don't bill hourly, so you don't need to set deadlines! Deadlines also exist for estimating how much a project might cost. If we were to agree on an hourly rate, then you'd want to set a deadline so the project stays to your budget. \n\nI protect you from this poisonous nature of hourly billing by offering a FIXED bid. The cost will never change over the course of the project. You will never pay a penny more than the fixed bid. Now you are free to juggle your time without sacrificing time, quality and money to make this project awesome.\n\nHowever, I now take on all the risk with giving you a fixed bid.\n\n## I require 100% upfront\n\nI protect the project and your pocketbook with a fixed cost. But if the project needs more time, then I give you more time. This is why I require 100% upfront. We might say that the project might take 3 months to finish. But due to your schedule or unforeseen issues (like COVID-19) the project could take 6 months or a year!\n\nSo, when you pay me 100% up front, you can take as long as you need.  You don't need to apologize for needing more time. I don't have to hound you for payments or rush the project towards the final payment.\n\n## I'm expensive\n\nDue to everything I listed above and the work displayed in this site, it should be obvious why my services are expensive (15-150K). Maybe none of this stuff listed above is bad news for you. In that case, we might be a good fit. [Shoot me an email](mailto:ben@solvm.com?subject=Hello \"Email\")."
[[layers]]
head = "Outtro"
template = "fm_layer_content"
text = "WOW!\n\nIf you read down this far, then I commend you. In closing, I'll leave you with a smile and wish you a good day.\n\nMuch respect,\n\nben"
[[layers]]
image = "/uploads/close-up-2.jpg"
template = "fm_layer_image"
+++
